Add flashloans docs (#451)
cowprotocol/docs: docs/cow-protocol/reference/contracts/periphery/flashloans.md

---
sidebar_position: 5
id: flashloans
---

# Flashloans

> There are two main flashloans contracts: `IBorrower` and `IFlashLoanRouter`.

Reviewer: Nit, since they aren't contract (and the contract aren't two).

```suggestion
Flashloans are handled through contracts implementing the following two interfaces: `IBorrower` and `IFlashLoanRouter`.
```

| `amount`       | The amount of funds requested from the lender                           |
| `callBackData` | The data to send back when calling the router once the loan is received |

#### `approve`

Approves the target address to spend the specified token on behalf of the Borrower up to the specified amount.

```solidity
approve(IERC20 token, address target, uint256 amount) external;
```

| **Parameter** | **Description**                                     |
|---------------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| `token`       | The token to approve for transferring               |
| `target`      | The address that will be allowed to spend the token |
| `amount`      | The amount of tokens to set as the allowance        |

#### `settlementContract`

The settlement contract supported by this contract.

```solidity
settlementContract() external view returns (ICowSettlement);
```

#### `router`

The router contract that manages this borrower contract. It will be called back once the flash-loan proceeds are received and is the only address that can trigger a flash loan request.

```solidity
router() external view returns (IFlashLoanRouter);
```

> ## `IFlashLoanRouter` contract

Reviewer: Nit: to me it feels that the router should come first, since it's the entry point. But I know the topic already so I'm biased here, if you think this is clearer then please keep it as it is.

This contract manages all flash-loan requests and is eventually responsible for executing the settlement.

### Data Types and Storage

```solidity
interface IFlashLoanRouter {
    function flashLoanAndSettle(Loan.Data[] calldata loans, bytes calldata settlement) external;
    function borrowerCallBack(bytes calldata encodedLoansWithSettlement) external;
    function settlementContract() external returns (ICowSettlement);
    function settlementAuthentication() external returns (ICowAuthentication);
}
```

### Functions

#### `flashLoanAndSettle`

Request all flash loan specified in the input and, after that, executes the specified settlement.

```solidity
flashLoanAndSettle(Loan.Data[] calldata loans, bytes calldata settlement) external;
```

| **Parameter** | **Description**                                                                                                                |
|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `loans`       | The list of flash loans to be requested before the settlement are executed. The loans will be requested in the specified order |

> | `settlement`  | The ABI-encoded bytes for a call to `settle()` (as in `abi.encodeCall`)                                                        |

Reviewer: Typo (I'll fix it in the contracts as well).

```suggestion
| **Parameter** | **Description**                                                                                                               |
|---------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `loans`       | The list of flash loans to be requested before the settlement is executed. The loans will be requested in the specified order |
| `settlement`  | The ABI-encoded bytes for a call to `settle()` (as in `abi.encodeCall`)                                                       |
```
